27180 css nesting (#28920)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/specificity/index.md

Combinators, such as {{CSSxRef("Adjacent_sibling_combinator", "+")}}, {{CSSxRef("Child_combinator", "&gt;")}}, {{CSSxRef("General_sibling_combinator", "~")}}, [" "](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Descendant_combinator), and {{CSSxRef("Column_combinator", "||")}}, may make a selector more specific in what is selected but they don't add any value to the specificity weight.

The `&` nesting combinator doesn't add specificity weight, but nested rules do. In terms of specificity, and functionality, nesting is very similar to the {{CSSxRef(":is", ":is()")}} pseudo-class.

> Like nesting, the {{CSSxRef(":is", ":is()")}}, {{CSSxRef(":has", ":has()")}}, and negation ({{CSSxRef(":not", ":not()")}}) pseudo-classes themselves add no weight. The parameters in these selectors, however, do. The values of each come from the parameter in the list of parameters, or selector in the list of nested selectors, with the highest specificity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like nesting, the {{CSSxRef(":is", ":is()")}}, {{CSSxRef(":has", ":has()")}}, and negation ({{CSSxRef(":not", ":not()")}}) pseudo-classes themselves add no weight. The parameters in these selectors, however, do. The specificity weight of each comes from the selector parameter in the list of selectors with the highest specificity. Similarly, with nested selectors, the specificity weight added by the nested selector component is the selector in the comma-separated list of nested selectors with the highest specificity.
```

Combinators, such as {{CSSxRef("Adjacent_sibling_combinator", "+")}}, {{CSSxRef("Child_combinator", "&gt;")}}, {{CSSxRef("General_sibling_combinator", "~")}}, [" "](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Descendant_combinator), and {{CSSxRef("Column_combinator", "||")}}, may make a selector more specific in what is selected but they don't add any value to the specificity weight.

> The negation pseudo-class, {{CSSxRef(":not", ":not()")}}, itself has no weight. Neither do the {{CSSxRef(":is", ":is()")}}, the {{CSSxRef(":has", ":has()")}} pseudo-classes or [CSS nesting](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_nesting/Nesting_and_specificity). The parameters in these selectors or nested rules do, however, do. The values of both come from the parameter or nested rules do in the list of parameters that has the highest specificity. The [`:not()`, `:is()`, `:has()` and CSS nesting exceptions](#the_is_not_has_and_css_nesting_exceptions) are discussed below.

Reviewer: this may add confusion. I suggest leaving the paragraph as is, then adding a paragraph on nesting. 
```suggestion
The `&` nesting combinator doesn't add specificity weight, but nested rules do. In terms of specificity, and functionality, nesting is very similar to the {{CSSxRef(":is", ":is()")}} pseudo-class.

Like nesting, the {{CSSxRef(":is", ":is()")}}, {{CSSxRef(":has", ":has()")}}, and negation ({{CSSxRef(":not", ":not()")}}) pseudo-classes themselves add no weight. The parameters in these selectors, however, do. The values of each come from the parameter in the list of parameters, or selector in the list of nested selectors, with the highest specificity. 

The [`:not()`, `:is()`, `:has()` and CSS nesting exceptions](#the_is_not_has_and_css_nesting_exceptions) are discussed below.
```

In the above CSS code block, we have included `#fakeId` in the selectors. This `#fakeId` adds `1-0-0` to the specificity weight of each paragraph.

When creating complex selector lists with [CSS nesting]() this behaves in exactly the same way as the `:is()` pseudo-class.

```css
p,
#fakeId {
  span {
    /* 1-0-1 */
  }
}
```

> In the above code block the complex selector `p, #fakeId` the specificity is taken from `#fakeId` and also the `span`, so this create a specificity of `1-0-1` for both `p span` and `#fakeId span`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above code block the complex selector `p, #fakeId` the specificity is taken from `#fakeId` and also the `span`, so this create a specificity of `1-0-1` for both `p span` and `#fakeId span`. This is the equivalent specificity as the `:is(p, #fakeId) span` selector.
```

}
```

> The same effect can be created using CSS nesting and using the [`&` nesting selector](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Nesting_selector) with no whitespace between the `&` and the ID or CLASS.

Reviewer: let's delete this example. We already have a nesting example, and this example is a "hack" not a point we want to hilite.
